.\" MIT License
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2021 Davidson Francis <davidsondfgl@gmail.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
.\" in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
.\" to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
.\" copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
.\" copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
.\" OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"

.TH man 1 "12 Dec 2021" "0.1" "anipaper man page"
.SH NAME
anipaper \-  A simple X11+SDL2 animated wallpaper setter and video player
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBanipaper\fR [\fIoptions\fR] <input-file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBAnipaper\fR is a simple 'wallpaper setter' for X11 environments that
uses the root window to display videos in loop.

Built on top of the FFmpeg libraries (libavcodec and companions),
Anipaper strives to be as simple as possible, having only the basics,
thus ensuring a readable and highly modifiable source code.
Furthermore, as it uses SDL2, it has a good performance without
consuming all system resources, depending on the type of video to be
played.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h"
This help
.IP "-o"
Execute video file only once, without loop. Loop is enabled by default.
.IP "-w"
Run in windowed mode, i.e: act as a normal video player, without setting
wallpaper.
.PP
.I Resolution options:
.IP "-k"
Keep video resolution, may appears smaller or bigger than the screen.
.IP "-s"
Scale to screen resolution, occupies the entire screen regardless of the
video aspect ration!
.IP "-f"
Fit to screen. Make the video fit into the screen, preserving the video
aspect ration. (default)
.IP "-r"
Set the screen resolution, in format: WIDTHxHEIGHT.
.SH NOTES
Please note that some options depends on the screen resolution. If unable
to get the resolution and the
.IR -r
parameter is not set:
.RS 2
.IP \(em 2
If X11 (wallpaper) mode: The video will always fill the screen area
.IP \(em 2
If Windowed mode (\fI-w\fR): Window will be the same size as the video file
.SH AUTHOR
Davidson Francis (davidsondfgl@gmail.com)
